# Genomic  convergence of worldwide root plants in microbe-rich soils
Abstract: 
Convergent and/or parallel evolution is the repeated occurrence of similar adaptation in unrelated species owing to similar habitats. Darwin thought it occurred on a very limited scale, while increasing studies provided evidence of adaptive convergence or parallelism. However, the iconic studies generally focused on just one or a relatively small number of species shaped by specific or exclusive environmental habitats at small scales. So far, it is unclear whether and the extent to which worldwide species can adapt to different biogeographical regions that have similar but also varying ecoenvironmental factors in convergent manner. Here we show that, despite contrasting variables across the globe, similar microbial pressure in soils confers genomic convergence in worldwide root plants. Compared to non-root plants, root plants especially those with sophisticated root systems have substantial innovative genes arising from tandem duplication (TD). Ecoenvironmental association analysis reveals soil microbial selection being the most global driver affecting TD frequency. By TD, many resistance/defense- and detoxification-related genes are expanded independently in different root plant lineages, resulting in convergent adaptation to microbial pressure. Conversely, habitat changes of root plants into reduced microbial pressure cause a decreasing TD frequency and a shrinkage of these genes. Our results demonstrate the power of soil microbial pressure in shaping genomes of root plants, providing the most worldwide prevalence of molecular convergence to date in nature.
